PD-498 Update HA Console Setup Instructions (#1974)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/GettingStarted/Install/InstallEnterpriseHASCALE.md

{{< /expand >}}
### Configuring the Network with Console Setup Menu

After installing the SCALE <file>.iso</file> file on on both controller 1 and 2 and finishing the TrueNAS SCALE Installer process, use the Console setup menu to configure the required network settings on controller 1 so it can access the SCALE UI. 
TrueNAS SCALE single controller systems use the DHCP-assigned IP address for the primary network interface to access the SCALE UI to complete the rest of the network and other configuration settings. 
However, HA systems with dual controllers must use static IP addresses. 

To allow controller 1 to access the UI, you must disable DHCP and add the controller 1 static IP address and netmask as an alias on the primary network interface, and then enter the network settings for host name, domain name, default gateway, and the name servers (1 and 2). 
You can configure the rest of the HA global network settings in the SCALE web UI.

> To use the Console setup menu to configure required network settings on controller 1:

Author: the screen title is Console setup and not Console Setup.  The screen name used to include menu, that is now gone from the screen but it is not incorrect to continue including menu. I suppose we could make this all lower case but it might get lost in text. I don't want to make all mentions in bold because it is both referred to in a general sense and when specifically talking about the screen version. I suggest leaving this as is.

   Tab or arrow down to **Save**, and then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>. A pending network changes notice displays with additional options.

5. Type <kbd>a</kbd> to apply the change, then <kbd>p</kbd> to make it persist. 
   Type <kbd>q</kbd> to return to the main Console setup menu.

6. Type <kbd>2</kbd> and then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to open the **Network Configuration** screen. 
   
   {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/CSMNetworkConfigurationHANoValues.png" alt="Update Network Configuration for HA" id="4: Update Network Configuration for HA" >}}

7. Use either <kbd>Tab</kbd> or the arrow keys to select each field. Type the value for each field listed below. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd> after each value. 
   
   {{< truetable>}}
   | Field | Description/Example |
   |-------|---------------------|
   | **hostname**  | The host name you assign to controller 1. For example *m50-123-1*.  |
   |  **domain**| The domain name for the nework controller 1. For example *my.companyname.net*  |
   | **ipv4gateway** | The default gateway IP address for your network. |
   | **nameserver1**<br>**nameserver2** | The IP addresses for your network DNS servers. |
   {{< /truetable >}}

> 8. Use either <kbd>Tab</kbd> or the arrow keys to select **Save**, then type <kbd>q</kbd> to return to the main Console setup menu.

Author: same comment as previous.

   {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/EditInterfaceInterfaceSettingsHA.png" alt="Edit Network Interface Settings" id="5: Edit Network Interface Settings" >}}

   a. Turn DHCP off if it is on. Select **DHCP** to clear the checkbox.

   b. Add the failover settings. Select **Critical**, and then select **1** on the **Failover Group** dropdown list.
   
   {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/EditInterfaceFailoveSettingsHA.png" alt="Edit Network Interface Failover Settings" id="6: Edit Network Interface Failover Settings" >}}

   c. Add the virtual IP (VIP) and controller 2 IP. Click **Add** for **Aliases** to displays the additional IP address fields. 
      
   {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/EditInterfaceAddAliasesHA.png" alt="Add Alias IP Addresses" id="7: Add Alias IP Addresses" >}}

      1. Type the IP address for controller 1 into **IP Address (This Controller)** and select the netmask (CIDR) number from the dropdown list.

      2. Type the controller 2 IP address into **IP Address (TrueNAS Controller 2)**.

      3. Type the VIP address into **Virtual IP Address (Failover Address)**.

> 4. Click **Save**

Author: Actually, I think this is part of the main or top-level steps so the indentation and step number change is incorrect. I'll have resolve this and go check the article to make sure.

> 4. Click **Save**

Author: After reviewing in desktop, the step is top-level/parent step 4 not a nested child substep.

For more information on how to import a pool [click here for more information]({{< relref "ImportPoolSCALE.md" >}}).

### Syncing Controller 1 and 2

1. Turn the failover service back on. Go to **System Settings > Services** locate the **Failover** service and click edit.

2. Select **Disable Failover** to clear the checkmark and turn failover back on, then click **Save**.
   The system might reboot. Use IPMI to monitor the status of controller 2 and wait until the controller is back up and running.

3. Log out of the controller 1 UI, and log in using the VIP address.

4. Sync controller 1 and 2. 
   With controller 2 powered on, but not configured, from controller 1 click **Sync To  Peer**. 
   Select **Reboot standby TrueNAS controller** and **Confirm**, then click **Proceed** to start the sync operation.    
   This sync controller 2 with controller 1 which adds the network settings and pool to controller 2.

   {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/22.12/FailoverSyncToPeerDialog.png" alt="Failover Sync To Peer" id="8: Failover Sync To Peer" >}}

When the system comes back up, log into SCALE using the virtual IP address. 

> The main **Dashboard** should display two **System Information** widgets, one for controller 1 with the serial number and the host name that includes the letter **a** and the other for controller 2 labeled as **Standby Controller** and that includes the serial number and the host name that includes the letter **b**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main **Dashboard** displays two **System Information** widgets. In standard configurations by iXsystems, Controller 1 shows its serial number and a host name that includes the letter **a**. Controller 2 is labeled as **Standby Controller** and shows its serial number and a host name that includes the letter **b**. 
```

Includes feedback from @Mrt134
